Completed during week 4:
Lab04 DHCP
SSH Secure
File Permission

Lab04 Goal:
Have you ever had to manually configure an IP address when connecting to a wifi or cellular network?  
Of course not! Behind the scenes, DHCP has been taking care of you. 
This lab will illustrate how DHCP works and why it is a core service in any network with clients.

The first step was to SSH into our lnux box. Use either PuTTY or Powershell SSH from AD01 to access your CentOS server from now on!  
This allows you to copy/paste from your Windows system (you can login into Canvas from here).  
You can open up multiple windows should you wish.  Note, Powershell SSH is somewhat new, and you can experience keyboard issues. 

Once in, I became the system user for a brief period of time using the sudo -i command. 
Then I opened the dhcp configuration file using the  nano text editor (nano is easier)
Command: sudo nano /etc/dhcp/dhpcd.conf
That allowed me to edit the file and configure the network.
subnet "enter" netmask "enter" {
  option routers
  option subnet-mask "enter"
  option domain-name "enter"
  option doname-name0servers "donaim name of server"
  range "enter" "enter"
 }
 
 Then I checked to see if it was active: 
 systemctl status dhcpd
 
 Now here is the part I ran into errors. The vi was picking up another file titled "dhcpd.conf"
 So I tried troublshooting, but nothing worked. I unistalled DHCP( sudo yum remove dhcp) and then reinstalled it ( sudo yum install dhcp)
 Then it was fixed. 
 
 Pro tip for systemctl: Whenever you change or create a service configuration file, you generally need to start or restart the service involved.  
 This fact trips up many linux administrators.  The systemd control program systemctl is how you start, stop and status services. 
 Also, Forgetting to enable a service to start on boot will cause the service to fail when the system is rebooted.  Remember this if a service worked fine one day and does not after a reboot. (systemctl enable dhcpd)
 
 Once status was green, I had to configure the firewall. The default configuration on CentOS is to enable the firewall and allow both ICMP and SSH requests in.  
 The DHCP server will not work until I enable the firewall. I will be using firewalld and the firewall-cmd utility to make this happen.
 Finally I re-configure the networking on WKS01 to use dynamic addressing rather than static addresses.
 
 For the SSH Securing: I disabled SSH root user access to dhcp01. 
 Pro Tip: Allowing remote access to a known user account like Administrator, root or admin for OpnSense is a terrible idea.  
 It allows an attacker to conduct an exhaustive attack using dictionaries of passwords against these known user accounts.  A security best practice is to disable Remote access as root.
 I didn't run into any issues here. Took about 5 minutes to complete compared to the 3 hour DHCP Lab. 
 I proved SSH was disabled for root by conducting a test via PuTTY.
 
  For Linux File Permissions The task was to understand the basic linux user, group and file permissions is necessary to build, deploy and secure linux systems.  
  I watched a video and completed the task.
  
  Overall a very busy week and glad I found the issue for DHCP lab. Hopfully the next lab I don't run into errors.
 
 
 

