Lab: Server Core / Remote Administrator Tools

Objectives:
Setup a Windows 2019 Server Core machine to act as a file server.  Use the command line to perform local tasks (change the IP, change the server name).  
Connect to the new server FS01 from AD02 using RSAT and add File Services.

Quick Tip About Time: It is very important that all your Windows systems are on the same timezone and have accurate time with respect to one another.  
Windows authentication is sensitive to differences in time. Your assigned VMs have this set, but this is not always the case.  
Redmond, WA (home of Microsoft) is in the Pacific Standard Time-zone.

Our first task was to set up FS01-Workstation:
sconfig command: Allows for IP address setting (IP, Subnet Mask, Default Gateway, DNS Server) and the Server name (FS01-yourname).

Our next step was to use Use RSAT to manage Active Directory. Remote Administration in an enterprise environment would likely not be done on the domain controller, 
but rather a Domain Joined workstation or server with Remote Server Administration Tools installed.  
We are doing so to avoid the installation of another server and server administration tools.

Within the File setup we had to create:

- a new Global security group (Sales-Users) in the Groups OU. 
- two users (Bob and Alice) as standard domain users, in the new SYS255\Users OU
- Add Alice to the Sales-Users group

Ran a few commands to check to make sure that Alice was the only one that could access Sales File.

Our final task was to create a shared drive so for both alice and bob. To that you can use Group Policy Management in Server Manger Tab

Step 1: Click on your domain name and Create a new GPO (give it a name) and link it to a group of users.
Step 2:  Edit the New GPO by hitting edit and go to User Configuration -> Preferences -> Windows Settings -> Drive Maps.
Step 3: Right-click Drive Maps, then select New and then click the Mapped Drive option
Step 4: Then you will see a bunch of options for the mapped drive. 
Step 5: Once finished, restart machine or use  gpupdate /force. Then run the gpresults and the shared drive will show up.

